---
layout: default
title: Build ffmpeg with 10-bit x265 support for encoding on Windows
category: Dev
---

# Build ffmpeg with 10-bit x265 support for encoding on Windows #

So I was trying to create some 10-bit test HEVC content with ffmpeg and ran into the following error:

```Batchfile
...
Incompatible pixel format 'yuv420p10le' for codec 'libx265', auto-selecting format 'yuv420p'
...
```

Which I then discovered that by default most ffmpeg builds include only 8-bit support for HEVC encoding with libx265.

Certainly, you can get builds that already enable 10 or even 12-bit support, but I'm usually a glutton for punishment so I thought I would see how hard it was to just build it manually.

Here are the exact steps I did to build both ffmpeg and libx265 with Visual Studio 2017 on Windows.  Some of the steps will also detail some of the errors I ran into along the way - in case someone else runs into trouble, hopefully then it will show how to overcome any future hurdles.

Note: This guide will only build the 64-bit versions, but you should be able to adjust for 32-bit.

## Build Tools ##
* git - to get the ffmpeg source code
* [TortoiseHg](https://tortoisehg.bitbucket.io/) - to get the x265 source code
* Visual Studio 2017 Community Edition (you can probably get most versions 2015 and newer to work)
* Cmake - I used 3.94
* YASM
  * Download [YASM](http://yasm.tortall.net/) 64-bit and copy to **C:\tools\yasm**
  * Rename **yasm-1.3.0-win64.exe** (or whatever version) to **yasm.exe**
  * Add C:\tools\yasm to your PATH environment variable
* Msys2
  * Download [Msys2](http://www.msys2.org/) installer for 64-bit and install to **C:\tools\msys64**
  * Navigate to C:\Tools\msys64 and run **msys2_shell.cmd** when the msys2 shell opens, use pacman to install the following:
    pacman -S gcc
    pacman -S diffutil
    pacman -S make
    pacman -S pkg-config
    pacman -S autoconf
  * Close the msys2 shell for now - we'll relaunch later from a Visual Studio command prompt 

## Build libx265 for 10-bit support ##

1. Download the x265 source code
   * Create the directory **c:\third_party** and cd from a command prompt to it.  Run the command:
   `hg clone https://bitbucket.org/multicoreware/x265`

2. Navigate to **third_party\x265\build**. Find the directory that matches the VC compiler you want to use. It is likely there will not be one matching the latest version of Visual Studio, so use the latest one available (In my case it was **vc12-x86_64**)
   * Using a text editor, open **make-solutions.bat**.  Change the generator command to match the version of VS you want to use.  I'm using 2017, so my command is:
   `cmake -G "Visual Studio 15 Win64" ..\..\source && cmake-gui ..\..\source`
   
3. Run the **make-solutions.bat** - during the processing, the CMake GUI will open with properties highlighted red.
   * Check the `HIGH_BIT_DEPTH` for 10-bit
   * Set the `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` to a directory the x265 lib, headers, and importantly the pkg-config .pc file will be installed to
   * Verify the `YASM_EXECUTABLE` property is pointing the location where you installed YASM
   
4. Press Configure
   * Another property called `MAIN12` will probably get highlighted in red.  This is for 12-bit support (if you want that check it).
   * Press Configure again
   * Press Generate
  
5. Open the *x265.sln* in Visual Studio - change the build type to Release and the architecture to x64

6. Change the C++ runtime to use static CRT (/MT) rather than the default (/MD).  I did this for the **cli**, **common**, and **encoder** projects.

7. Build the **ALL_BUILD** project.

8. Build the **INSTALL** project - this is important for the following ffmpeg build

9. Navigate to the location used in the `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` property above.  Verify you have bin, include and lib folders.


## Build ffmpeg with custom x265 build from above ##

